index.md, before:

![Stand up comedy](StandUpBanner.jpg)
# Mark Stringer Comedy 

**This a record of my attempt to perform 50 open mic comedy gigs in 2019.  I also want to write 180 jokes (3 jokes a minute? hey! that's a one hour show).  I want to laugh a lot - and who knows? Maybe make somebody else laugh as well.**

### Friday 18th January 2019

### Joke No. 8 - Toto

Fucking Toto - "I guess it rains down in Africa." Good fucking guess.  What's it gonna do? Rain up?

### Joke No. 7 - Wrong routine

Hello.  How are you doing? Look at this! You're here! I'm here! Let's push the tea and bourbons to one side and get fucking.  Ah sorry.  Wrong meeting.

### Joke No. 6 - World Peace

I would really like world peace.  Actually I don't think world peace isn't enough.  You really need world peace and quiet.  Because if there's world peace but somebody's watching:

* youtube videos
* on their phone
* with the sound on

Sooner or later there's gonna be murders.

### Wednesday 16th January 2019

### Bringer No. 3 - The Cavendish Arms

So I was a bringer at the competition at the Cav the night after I was a competitor.  It was interesting to note that *I* thought that the audience was much better than the previous night.  The comic that I was bringering didn't think they were that great. 

Actually I thought pretty much everyone was hilarious. And I laughed a *lot.*

Some of the people were hilarious were only on their third or fourth gig, which is amazing. And just goes to show that Logan Murray's claim that *everyone* can be funny in the right setting is pretty much true.

A couple of gigs that I did have in the calendar have disappeared.  So I don't have another gig now until I'm over 50!

And I'm seriously thinking about trying to make my next gig entirely new material.  Not reading off a clipboard. But properly hot-housed. I've got 12 days. I think I can do it.

### Joke No. 5 - Fucking How Much?

I love living in London and most of the time I just put up with the prices.  But every now and then I have a Yorkshire flashback. It's like the world goes into slow motion and it "Foooookinnnnngin Hooowwwwwww MUCH?"

And at that point, if I did have a machine gun I would just gun down all the staff.

### Tuesday 15th January 2019

### Gig No. 4 - Cavendish Arms Competition
It went nowhere near as well as the Strange Brew gig last week. I noticed that competition audiences at the Cav are less willing to laugh than normal Cav audiences.

And I didn't get through to the next round. Which felt miserable when it happened. But that's the ying to the yang of how great it feels when they laugh and you totally smash it.

There was also some reference to my age. The compere compared (I suppose that's his job!) me to the old guy from "Up!".  Cheeky bastard. And then my bringer pointed out that there was a strong contrast between me and the other comedians in terms of age. OK.  I'm a lot older than a lot of the other comedians on the circuit, but I still think I have something to give. Part of me wonders if I should vary what I do to somehow fit my age better. Part of me (the part that wins) thinks "fuck it, this is MY time." I'll do what the fuck I like.

I was going to ask the audience what sort of jokes they think I should tell, but I didn't because I thought I should do a *tight* five minutes. But what would have been the harm?

But then, you know, listening back to the recording.  I do sound kind of tired. And I'm sure that that doesn't work.  I know that there are some "low energy" comedians. But I don't think my stuff generally works that way.  The way that I see myself is as friendly, eccentric and OK, filthy. 

And this is good, because it's a note that I can give to myself (as well as the note to always make sure that I record myself and listen back to the recordings). When it's a long old night and you're not on until later, you need to make sure that you attack with energy.

<audio controls>
  <source src="GigFourCavendish.mp3" type="audio/mp3">
  <p>Your browser doesn't support HTML5 audio. Here is
     a <a href="GigFourCavendish.mp3">link to the audio</a> instead.</p>
</audio>
<br />


### Monday 14th January 2019

### Stunts

I read a book about the great performer and showman Ken Campbell. He had a lot of success running theatrical shows in the middle of pubs in the Lancashire mill towns. This can be a tough crowd. The way that he did this was by performing something that was a lot nearer street theatre than theatre, for example hammering a six inch nail into someone's nostril (this is apparently a lot easier than it sounds but please don't try this, either at home or in the pub).

My ideas for stunts aren't that outrageous, but if I can any of them to work I might try to think of some more.

1. Make a huge thing of attempting to ask a member of the audience their profession and being genuinely interested in their response.
2. Ask the audience what kinds of jokes they think you're going to tell. Ask them what kinds of jokes they'd like you to tell - try to tell a joke about that.
3. Busking stand-up comedian spend a day in one of the spots where people busk offering to tell jokes for money.  I'm thinking one pound a joke. 5 jokes for three pounds.

### Saturday 12th January 2019

### Bringer No. 2 - Cuddles for Troubles 

This is normally a very friendly night but I found it a bit weird. Maybe what made it so weird was that one of the first acts on was the daughter of a famous politician.  She wasn't funny. But she didn't have to be to keep people interested because she was telling stories about famous people. What I found particularly galling was that she didn't obey the rules of the "Bringer" - she didn't stay until the end. And she also did about a minute and a half longer than she was supposed to.

Ah well, I suppose if your dad's implicated in murdering a million people you're probably not going to "sweat" the small stuff of the etiquette of a bringer night.

The other thing that slightly bothered me was that there were two female comedians who did stuff that, I thought, was really hostile to men. One of them was specifically calling out men my age. Part of what bothers me about it is that I'm wondering if when I do jokes about sex, I'm coming across as hostile to women. I've theorised that it might be a good idea to "punch up" as a female comedian.  So it's interesting that when I watched someone do that a couple of times in one night, I didn't like it up me - as Clive Dunn would say. 

One of the jokes that I did like was "I went to therapy, then I did stand-up comedy, which is definitely the right order." A lot of people are there to talk about their sexuality in ways which are quite near therapy.  

I mean. *I'm* there when I'm on stage to talk about my sexuality.  But I suppose what I'm trying to do is to have put enough work into the writing and the delivery that it gets laughs. Could you (if you were a woman) do a routine about hating men that was riotously funny?

I read autobiography of Joan Rivers and she says something about it being OK for there to be hate in the comedy.  But there has to be more comedy than hate.


### January 9th 2019

### Gig Notes - Gig No. 3

<audio controls>
  <source src="GigThreeDeptford.mp3" type="audio/mp3">
  <p>Your browser doesn't support HTML5 audio. Here is
     a <a href="GigThreeDeptford.mp3">link to the audio</a> instead.</p>
</audio>
<br>
A brand new comedy gig in Deptford. The compere asked me what kind of material I was going to do. Me "Erm, I'm going to talk about Brexit and oral sex."

I was supposed to be second on in the second act (a very nice slot) but then some other comics didn't turn up and I ended up being on first! I'd only just though of the oral sex stuff that morning and I did it instead of the LME stuff which hasn't really gone that well. And, it went very well. I wouldn't necessarily say that I smashed it (OK I did say that on facebook!) but it went very well.

I think the hot housing worked very well. I'm going to try to do some more tomorrow.

### Joke No. 4

### Oral sex

>>Lots of things sound like a great idea but turn out to be a bad idea.  I read a book about oral sex. No this is real.  It's called "She comes first." And it was lots of good advice about oral sex. Cover the whole area.  Not just the top bit.  Maintain eye contact.  Which can be tricky. But yes.  Good.  Compliment  her on the smell and the taste.

>> Now this just goes to show that in sex, as in comedy, timing is very important.  Because at this point, compliment a lady on the smell of her vagina is a good idea.  Do it to someone you've never met before on the Jubilee line? You're gonna get funny looks.  See? Timing. 

>> But finally, when you're getting advance it suggests that you get right in there and put your big front teeth against the clitoris and hum. You're essentially turning yourself into a giant vibrator.  Sounds like a good idea right? But the question then arises.  What are you gonna hum? I always want to hum the damnbusters. You've got the mask on.  You've got things flapping in the wind behind you.

>>I was not popular.  This gives a whole new meaning to the phrase "not going down well."

### January 8th 2019

### Gig Notes - Gig No. 2 
Great gig in Stoke Newington - 42 Comedy club on a Tuesday night downstairs at Fanny's bar.

You know when you go to the theatre and you come back all breathless and enthusiastic.  That's how I feel after this gig.  I really think the hot-housing worked.

I did a *bunch* of material I've never done before about Brexit and Sinn Fein! And it got laughs in front of a substantially Irish crowd.

I really didn't think that the place looked like much when I went in there but I enjoyed being in the audience and *boy* did I enjoy being on stage.

Again.  Again.

Great gig in Stoke Newington - 42 Comedy club on a Tuesday night downstairs at Fanny's bar.

### Knob Gags

Knob gags. Dick gags. Ball gags. I wrote down the "curler" joke from yesterday, even though it was tortuous because I think it's important even to write down a glimmer of a gag. But at the same time I'd really like to write some other jokes. 

### Joke No. 4

### You are what you eat

They say that you are what you eat.  Does that mean that Boris Johnson eats massive cocks?

## January 7th 2019

### Bringer No. 1 - Cavendish Arms Comedy Competition, "the Max Turner"

Interesting to go a comedy competition.  There was one stand-out act, who I'm sure I'll see again and catch his name next time - Nick someone.
  
One thing that *is* clear about that competition is that getting on first is really bad. The first three or four acts really struggled.

I'm on next week and I can see that what you need for that competition is a really tight set.  Which is exactly what I don't have. 

### Joke No. 3

### Curlers

I have this friend who's into polyamoury.  I rang her up last night on the off-chance she wanted to go out for a drink.

She said "Oh I would do, but I just got the curlers in."

I said "You mean you're doing your hair."

She said "No that's what I call my boyfriends Jeff and Barry."

I said "Why?"

She said "Because they sweep me up and they've got huge stones."


## January 5th 2019

### Joke No. 2

### A Year of Living Self-Helpfully

**Planuary** - plan all the things that you're going to stop doing in the rest of the year

**Forbrewery** - got to the pub every night 

**Fartz** - eat a *lot* of kebabs and curries

**Staypril** - stay in the house and watch box sets, order pizza

**Play away May** - commit adultery 

**Noon June** - don't get out of bed until lunch

**July** - Ju lie next to the pool somewhere sunny probably drinking cocktails with a hangover

**Or Gust** - a lot like Fartz

**Acceptember** - say yes to everything
**Cocktober** – Behave like Piers Morgan

**NoNovember** - don't say “no” to anything

**Dick-cember** - pretend to be a vegan, especially for Christmas dinner.

---
### Notes on "Hot-housing"

OK, so I played the game with the speed of the routine yesterday and it kind of worked.

Some notes.

1. There are only really three speeds: slow as you can bear, fast as you can and normal (it might work to go slow and then try to go slower and then try to go even slower, and the same with faster).
2. It teaches you the material and it makes you feel the bits that don't work
3. I think I've got about 2 mins tops of good stuff in my current 5 mins so I need to write some more!
4. I got a "weak joke" out of the activity - "50 years old and never been swiped."

## January 3rd 2019

### "Hot-housing"

Just realised that I've got a competition in 12 days time.  And what I need for that is a "tight" 5 minutes.  That's not what I have have the the moment is a "loose" 9 or 10 minutes. How do I make it tighter. Well, I can do *lots* of 5 minute gigs but every one that I do, I have to go to.  And that's typically a whole evening that I'm not at home.  Also, every gig that I do where I'm saying the *same* thing over and over is a gig where I'm not trying new material.  It's also a gig where I'm not trying new interactions with audience. 

So I've got an idea for something that I might try.

1. Put together 5 minutes of material.
1. Read it through a couple of times and time it.
2. Print it out.
3. Get a dice (die I believe is the singular).
4. Roll it:
*	1 = VERY SLOW
*	2 = QUITE SLOW
*	3 = NORMAL SPEED
*	4 = QUITE FAST
*	5 = CRAZY FAST
*	6 = OPERATIC/RAP/AS IF IT WERE POETRY
5. Do this 5 or 6 times - video it.
6. After each iteration make notes of any new funny ideas that came to you, any changes you might make.  Either note them on the routine or, if you're getting to the point where you're putting the routine down just add them in.
7. I'm going to try this this weekend, I might post the results.

### Joke No. 1 of the year

>> I think it's time ladies and gentlemen that we talk about the elephant in the room, well, if there isn't an elephant in the room, what did I just see in the gents?  Not only had it blocked the u-bend it had cracked the pot. And there was what looked like a trunk-shaped dent in the wall.  Although I suppose it's possible that that was the result of veganuary.

### Gig Notes - Gig No. 1

There weren't many of us last night at the Princess Victoria in Shepherd's Bush.  Njambi McGrath runs a great evening, but it's *not* a bringer unless you want to do 10 minutes (I'd bought a bringer). 

There was one joke that I really liked about millenials, which I won't share here.

OK, this is a weird thing.  When you go to a stand-up gig, there's a *lot* to remember.

* Engage with the audience rather than just look down at your material - I managed that a bit
* Video your performance (totally forgot)
* Remember the names of the comedians that you think are funny.

I've thought of doing a few things about my name just so that people would remember it, my mum is a shrewd Yorkshire woman, so I got 4 letters, no middle name.  Mark. The other thing about this name is that it's very easy to shout.  Mark.  It's a lot like BARK.  The result of this is that she perfected a way of saying it that could make me jump straight out of bed and into my clothes on a school morning. MARK!

I've also thought of writing my name on my T-shirt (then there would be another thing that I had to remember - to take off my clothes under the t-shirt).

## January 2nd 2019

### Not a Good Start

So I printed out a routine that I did before Christmas.  None of it looks funny. I've added a joke about the elephant in the room.  That doesn't look funny either.

I have a gig booked for tonight "The Heavenly Comedy" at the Princess Victoria in Shepherds Bush.  I didn't sleep very well and me being awake woke up my wife up, and she had to get up early, when we both finally did wake up we had an argument. So new year is of to a roaring start!

I'd really rather I didn't do this gig tonight, but I've arranged a bringer (if I have a bringer I get a whole 10 minutes) and I don't want to let the organiser, NJambi McGrath down.

Commit message:

Add a joke about bird feeders

index.md, after:

![Stand up comedy](StandUpBanner.jpg)
# Mark Stringer Comedy 

**This a record of my attempt to perform 50 open mic comedy gigs in 2019.  I also want to write 180 jokes (3 jokes a minute? hey! that's a one hour show).  I want to laugh a lot - and who knows? Maybe make somebody else laugh as well.**

### Tuesday 22nd January 2019

I AM FIFTY TODAY! 

### Joke No. 10 - Unaided Flight

Unaided flight is a thing that birds can do that we humans can't do. Like hanging upsidedown from a bird feeder to get at the peanuts - I've tried.


### Sunday 20th January 2019

### Bringer No 4. Rising Stars 
[Rising Stars Comedy Club](https://www.facebook.com/RisingStarComedy/)

The winner of the night - Lucy Gape was very funny and lifted a night that had been a bit lacklustre up to that point.  It's a good room at the King and Queen on Foley street in Fitzrovia. It wasn't quite full, but I can imagine if it were it would be awesome. 

### Joke No 9. Finer points of bringer gig etiquette

I was at an open mic bringer gig a couple of weeks ago and Alastair Campbell's daughter was doing a set. She started out by boasting that she'd bullied someone at school.  Which I thought was a brave move in front of a bunch of comedians. Then her bringer left - halfway through her set and she did 8 minutes instead of eight and then fucked off after her set.  Which I thought was totally out of order, but I suppose if your dad was instrumental in the illegal death of millions of people you're not too worried about the finer points of bringer gig etiquette.

### Saturday 19th January 2019

Ha! I just checked the lyrics of "Africa" by Toto.  And it's not "I guess it rains down in Africa", it's "I bless the rains down in Africa." I don't know if that means I should just not do the bit, or it makes the bit better.

### Friday 18th January 2019

### Joke No. 8 - Fucking Toto

Fucking Toto - "I guess it rains down in Africa." Good fucking guess.  What's it gonna do? Rain up? It's kind of in the definition of rain that it rains down.  That's why it's called precipitation.  If it's raining up.  Either that's plain old evapouration, or maybe it's the end times.

### Joke No. 7 - Wrong routine

Hello.  How are you doing? Look at this! You're here! I'm here! Let's push the tea and bourbons to one side and get fucking.  Ah sorry.  Wrong meeting.

### Joke No. 6 - World Peace

I would really like world peace.  Actually I don't think world peace isn't enough.  You really need world peace and quiet.  Because if there's world peace but somebody's watching:

* youtube videos
* on their phone
* with the sound on

Sooner or later there's gonna be murders.

### Wednesday 16th January 2019

### Bringer No. 3 - The Cavendish Arms

So I was a bringer at the competition at the Cav the night after I was a competitor.  It was interesting to note that *I* thought that the audience was much better than the previous night.  The comic that I was bringering didn't think they were that great. 

Actually I thought pretty much everyone was hilarious. And I laughed a *lot.*

Some of the people were hilarious were only on their third or fourth gig, which is amazing. And just goes to show that Logan Murray's claim that *everyone* can be funny in the right setting is pretty much true.

A couple of gigs that I did have in the calendar have disappeared.  So I don't have another gig now until I'm over 50!

And I'm seriously thinking about trying to make my next gig entirely new material.  Not reading off a clipboard. But properly hot-housed. I've got 12 days. I think I can do it.

### Joke No. 5 - Fucking How Much?

I love living in London and most of the time I just put up with the prices.  But every now and then I have a Yorkshire flashback. It's like the world goes into slow motion and it "Foooookinnnnngin Hooowwwwwww MUCH?"

And at that point, if I did have a machine gun I would just gun down all the staff.

### Tuesday 15th January 2019

### Gig No. 4 - Cavendish Arms Competition
It went nowhere near as well as the Strange Brew gig last week. I noticed that competition audiences at the Cav are less willing to laugh than normal Cav audiences.

And I didn't get through to the next round. Which felt miserable when it happened. But that's the ying to the yang of how great it feels when they laugh and you totally smash it.

There was also some reference to my age. The compere compared (I suppose that's his job!) me to the old guy from "Up!".  Cheeky bastard. And then my bringer pointed out that there was a strong contrast between me and the other comedians in terms of age. OK.  I'm a lot older than a lot of the other comedians on the circuit, but I still think I have something to give. Part of me wonders if I should vary what I do to somehow fit my age better. Part of me (the part that wins) thinks "fuck it, this is MY time." I'll do what the fuck I like.

I was going to ask the audience what sort of jokes they think I should tell, but I didn't because I thought I should do a *tight* five minutes. But what would have been the harm?

But then, you know, listening back to the recording.  I do sound kind of tired. And I'm sure that that doesn't work.  I know that there are some "low energy" comedians. But I don't think my stuff generally works that way.  The way that I see myself is as friendly, eccentric and OK, filthy. 

And this is good, because it's a note that I can give to myself (as well as the note to always make sure that I record myself and listen back to the recordings). When it's a long old night and you're not on until later, you need to make sure that you attack with energy.

<audio controls>
  <source src="GigFourCavendish.mp3" type="audio/mp3">
  <p>Your browser doesn't support HTML5 audio. Here is
     a <a href="GigFourCavendish.mp3">link to the audio</a> instead.</p>
</audio>
<br />


### Monday 14th January 2019

### Stunts

I read a book about the great performer and showman Ken Campbell. He had a lot of success running theatrical shows in the middle of pubs in the Lancashire mill towns. This can be a tough crowd. The way that he did this was by performing something that was a lot nearer street theatre than theatre, for example hammering a six inch nail into someone's nostril (this is apparently a lot easier than it sounds but please don't try this, either at home or in the pub).

My ideas for stunts aren't that outrageous, but if I can any of them to work I might try to think of some more.

1. Make a huge thing of attempting to ask a member of the audience their profession and being genuinely interested in their response.
2. Ask the audience what kinds of jokes they think you're going to tell. Ask them what kinds of jokes they'd like you to tell - try to tell a joke about that.
3. Busking stand-up comedian spend a day in one of the spots where people busk offering to tell jokes for money.  I'm thinking one pound a joke. 5 jokes for three pounds.

### Saturday 12th January 2019

### Bringer No. 2 - Cuddles for Troubles 

This is normally a very friendly night but I found it a bit weird. Maybe what made it so weird was that one of the first acts on was the daughter of a famous politician.  She wasn't funny. But she didn't have to be to keep people interested because she was telling stories about famous people. What I found particularly galling was that she didn't obey the rules of the "Bringer" - she didn't stay until the end. And she also did about a minute and a half longer than she was supposed to.

Ah well, I suppose if your dad's implicated in murdering a million people you're probably not going to "sweat" the small stuff of the etiquette of a bringer night.

The other thing that slightly bothered me was that there were two female comedians who did stuff that, I thought, was really hostile to men. One of them was specifically calling out men my age. Part of what bothers me about it is that I'm wondering if when I do jokes about sex, I'm coming across as hostile to women. I've theorised that it might be a good idea to "punch up" as a female comedian.  So it's interesting that when I watched someone do that a couple of times in one night, I didn't like it up me - as Clive Dunn would say. 

One of the jokes that I did like was "I went to therapy, then I did stand-up comedy, which is definitely the right order." A lot of people are there to talk about their sexuality in ways which are quite near therapy.  

I mean. *I'm* there when I'm on stage to talk about my sexuality.  But I suppose what I'm trying to do is to have put enough work into the writing and the delivery that it gets laughs. Could you (if you were a woman) do a routine about hating men that was riotously funny?

I read autobiography of Joan Rivers and she says something about it being OK for there to be hate in the comedy.  But there has to be more comedy than hate.


### January 9th 2019

### Gig Notes - Gig No. 3

<audio controls>
  <source src="GigThreeDeptford.mp3" type="audio/mp3">
  <p>Your browser doesn't support HTML5 audio. Here is
     a <a href="GigThreeDeptford.mp3">link to the audio</a> instead.</p>
</audio>
<br>
A brand new comedy gig in Deptford. The compere asked me what kind of material I was going to do. Me "Erm, I'm going to talk about Brexit and oral sex."

I was supposed to be second on in the second act (a very nice slot) but then some other comics didn't turn up and I ended up being on first! I'd only just though of the oral sex stuff that morning and I did it instead of the LME stuff which hasn't really gone that well. And, it went very well. I wouldn't necessarily say that I smashed it (OK I did say that on facebook!) but it went very well.

I think the hot housing worked very well. I'm going to try to do some more tomorrow.

### Joke No. 4

### Oral sex

>>Lots of things sound like a great idea but turn out to be a bad idea.  I read a book about oral sex. No this is real.  It's called "She comes first." And it was lots of good advice about oral sex. Cover the whole area.  Not just the top bit.  Maintain eye contact.  Which can be tricky. But yes.  Good.  Compliment  her on the smell and the taste.

>> Now this just goes to show that in sex, as in comedy, timing is very important.  Because at this point, compliment a lady on the smell of her vagina is a good idea.  Do it to someone you've never met before on the Jubilee line? You're gonna get funny looks.  See? Timing. 

>> But finally, when you're getting advance it suggests that you get right in there and put your big front teeth against the clitoris and hum. You're essentially turning yourself into a giant vibrator.  Sounds like a good idea right? But the question then arises.  What are you gonna hum? I always want to hum the damnbusters. You've got the mask on.  You've got things flapping in the wind behind you.

>>I was not popular.  This gives a whole new meaning to the phrase "not going down well."

### January 8th 2019

### Gig Notes - Gig No. 2 
Great gig in Stoke Newington - 42 Comedy club on a Tuesday night downstairs at Fanny's bar.

You know when you go to the theatre and you come back all breathless and enthusiastic.  That's how I feel after this gig.  I really think the hot-housing worked.

I did a *bunch* of material I've never done before about Brexit and Sinn Fein! And it got laughs in front of a substantially Irish crowd.

I really didn't think that the place looked like much when I went in there but I enjoyed being in the audience and *boy* did I enjoy being on stage.

Again.  Again.

Great gig in Stoke Newington - 42 Comedy club on a Tuesday night downstairs at Fanny's bar.

### Knob Gags

Knob gags. Dick gags. Ball gags. I wrote down the "curler" joke from yesterday, even though it was tortuous because I think it's important even to write down a glimmer of a gag. But at the same time I'd really like to write some other jokes. 

### Joke No. 4

### You are what you eat

They say that you are what you eat.  Does that mean that Boris Johnson eats massive cocks?

## January 7th 2019

### Bringer No. 1 - Cavendish Arms Comedy Competition, "the Max Turner"

Interesting to go a comedy competition.  There was one stand-out act, who I'm sure I'll see again and catch his name next time - Nick someone.
  
One thing that *is* clear about that competition is that getting on first is really bad. The first three or four acts really struggled.

I'm on next week and I can see that what you need for that competition is a really tight set.  Which is exactly what I don't have. 

### Joke No. 3

### Curlers

I have this friend who's into polyamoury.  I rang her up last night on the off-chance she wanted to go out for a drink.

She said "Oh I would do, but I just got the curlers in."

I said "You mean you're doing your hair."

She said "No that's what I call my boyfriends Jeff and Barry."

I said "Why?"

She said "Because they sweep me up and they've got huge stones."


## January 5th 2019

### Joke No. 2

### A Year of Living Self-Helpfully

**Planuary** - plan all the things that you're going to stop doing in the rest of the year

**Forbrewery** - got to the pub every night 

**Fartz** - eat a *lot* of kebabs and curries

**Staypril** - stay in the house and watch box sets, order pizza

**Play away May** - commit adultery 

**Noon June** - don't get out of bed until lunch

**July** - Ju lie next to the pool somewhere sunny probably drinking cocktails with a hangover

**Or Gust** - a lot like Fartz

**Acceptember** - say yes to everything
**Cocktober** – Behave like Piers Morgan

**NoNovember** - don't say “no” to anything

**Dick-cember** - pretend to be a vegan, especially for Christmas dinner.

---
### Notes on "Hot-housing"

OK, so I played the game with the speed of the routine yesterday and it kind of worked.

Some notes.

1. There are only really three speeds: slow as you can bear, fast as you can and normal (it might work to go slow and then try to go slower and then try to go even slower, and the same with faster).
2. It teaches you the material and it makes you feel the bits that don't work
3. I think I've got about 2 mins tops of good stuff in my current 5 mins so I need to write some more!
4. I got a "weak joke" out of the activity - "50 years old and never been swiped."

## January 3rd 2019

### "Hot-housing"

Just realised that I've got a competition in 12 days time.  And what I need for that is a "tight" 5 minutes.  That's not what I have have the the moment is a "loose" 9 or 10 minutes. How do I make it tighter. Well, I can do *lots* of 5 minute gigs but every one that I do, I have to go to.  And that's typically a whole evening that I'm not at home.  Also, every gig that I do where I'm saying the *same* thing over and over is a gig where I'm not trying new material.  It's also a gig where I'm not trying new interactions with audience. 

So I've got an idea for something that I might try.

1. Put together 5 minutes of material.
1. Read it through a couple of times and time it.
2. Print it out.
3. Get a dice (die I believe is the singular).
4. Roll it:
*	1 = VERY SLOW
*	2 = QUITE SLOW
*	3 = NORMAL SPEED
*	4 = QUITE FAST
*	5 = CRAZY FAST
*	6 = OPERATIC/RAP/AS IF IT WERE POETRY
5. Do this 5 or 6 times - video it.
6. After each iteration make notes of any new funny ideas that came to you, any changes you might make.  Either note them on the routine or, if you're getting to the point where you're putting the routine down just add them in.
7. I'm going to try this this weekend, I might post the results.

### Joke No. 1 of the year

>> I think it's time ladies and gentlemen that we talk about the elephant in the room, well, if there isn't an elephant in the room, what did I just see in the gents?  Not only had it blocked the u-bend it had cracked the pot. And there was what looked like a trunk-shaped dent in the wall.  Although I suppose it's possible that that was the result of veganuary.

### Gig Notes - Gig No. 1

There weren't many of us last night at the Princess Victoria in Shepherd's Bush.  Njambi McGrath runs a great evening, but it's *not* a bringer unless you want to do 10 minutes (I'd bought a bringer). 

There was one joke that I really liked about millenials, which I won't share here.

OK, this is a weird thing.  When you go to a stand-up gig, there's a *lot* to remember.

* Engage with the audience rather than just look down at your material - I managed that a bit
* Video your performance (totally forgot)
* Remember the names of the comedians that you think are funny.

I've thought of doing a few things about my name just so that people would remember it, my mum is a shrewd Yorkshire woman, so I got 4 letters, no middle name.  Mark. The other thing about this name is that it's very easy to shout.  Mark.  It's a lot like BARK.  The result of this is that she perfected a way of saying it that could make me jump straight out of bed and into my clothes on a school morning. MARK!

I've also thought of writing my name on my T-shirt (then there would be another thing that I had to remember - to take off my clothes under the t-shirt).

## January 2nd 2019

### Not a Good Start

So I printed out a routine that I did before Christmas.  None of it looks funny. I've added a joke about the elephant in the room.  That doesn't look funny either.

I have a gig booked for tonight "The Heavenly Comedy" at the Princess Victoria in Shepherds Bush.  I didn't sleep very well and me being awake woke up my wife up, and she had to get up early, when we both finally did wake up we had an argument. So new year is of to a roaring start!

I'd really rather I didn't do this gig tonight, but I've arranged a bringer (if I have a bringer I get a whole 10 minutes) and I don't want to let the organiser, NJambi McGrath down.
